
\begin{comment}

In~\cite{felez2019model} is based on the concept of virtual coupling or train convoys, which is inspired by recent developments in the field of safe platooning of autonomous vehicles. The authors utilize a decentralized model predictive control \gls{mpc} framework for each train involved in a convoy formation. Control designs for both the leading and following trains are provided, utilizing an optimal control formulation for both controllers. The optimal control design is based on the numeric solution of a finite horizon optimal control problem. The authors also compare the proposed method with alternative control strategies, including the well-studied moving block train control concept. 

In \cite{LSTMMPC} a new approach to train control systems for virtual coupling is presented. The proposed approach utilizes a deep learning-based model predictive control (MPC) method for the operations of following trains in virtual coupling. The MPC method includes a long and short-term memory (LSTM) neural network and an optimal controller, where the LSTM neural network is used to predict control objectives of the preceding train's operation status. By utilizing the prediction results, the proposed MPC-based controller for the following train is presented. This paper also compares the proposed approach with conventional MPC using a concrete example of a metro line. Experimental results show that with a deep learning-based prediction of preceding trains, the following train achieves better tracking accuracy, which ultimately improves the stability of train convoys.

In \cite{she2020} This paper presents a cruising control approach for virtually coupled train sets (VCTS) based on Model Predictive Control (MPC), which addresses the increasing demand for rail transportation capacity. The approach aims to maintain a small inter-train distance while ensuring safety through the use of virtual coupling (VC). The MPC controller is designed to optimize specific goals and constraints, and its stability is verified using the Lyapunov stability theory. Simulation scenarios, including normal, disrupted, and emergency scenarios, demonstrate that the proposed controller is empirically stable and can regulate train position differences. The results show that under VC, the train tracking interval is shorter compared to the widely applied moving block system.

\cite{park2022} introduces the concept of Virtual coupling which enables the merge and separation of railway vehicles on the move, increasing transport capacity and operational efficiency. This study presents a new approach to gap control in virtual coupling, using sliding mode control with a nonlinear train model with uncertainties. To ensure the safe and efficient operation of the trains, a gap reference generation scheme is developed that satisfies acceleration and jerk constraints and ensures that the merge and separation of two trains is completed before a given location. The impact of position and velocity measurement errors on gap control is also considered, and a new error correction scheme is proposed to minimize the perturbation in the gap control performance. The proposed control schemes are validated using simulations, demonstrating their robustness and effectiveness in improving the performance of virtual coupling systems.

In \cite{wang2021} the paper proposes the use of  to obtain an optimal policy for IIoT-based VCTS. The reward function is developed using the artificial potential field (APF) method to help reduce computation complexity. By combining RL and APF, the proposed approach can achieve global optimal policy and significantly increase efficiency. Simulation results demonstrate the excellent performance of the proposed RL-based cooperative control approach for IIoT-based VCTS.

In \cite{basile2022} presents a solution for Virtual Coupling (VC) control in uncertain autonomous trains convoys, which communicate via Radio Block Center (RBC) and Train-2-Train (T2T) network. The proposed Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient-based (DDPG) controller tracks the reference behavior imposed by the RBC and maintains the desired inter-train distance with respect to the preceding train. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is validated through a numerical analysis in Python environment. The DDPG controller achieves the VC formation despite external disturbances acting on the train dynamics. The proposed solution offers an efficient and effective VC control solution for autonomous trains convoys, enhancing their stability and reliability.

secomnd version 

Several works have been proposed in recent years to address the problem of virtual coupling (VC) control in autonomous train convoys. In \cite{felez2019model}, the authors present a decentralized model predictive control (MPC) framework for each train in a convoy, with optimal control formulations for both leading and following trains. \cite{LSTMMPC} proposes a deep learning-based MPC approach that uses a long and short-term memory neural network to predict control objectives of preceding trains' operation status, improving tracking accuracy and convoy stability. In \cite{she2020}, an MPC-based cruising control approach for virtually coupled train sets (VCTS) is presented, which optimizes specific goals and constraints while ensuring safety and stability through VC. \cite{park2022} introduces sliding mode control with a nonlinear train model to improve gap control in virtual coupling, with a gap reference generation scheme that satisfies acceleration and jerk constraints. In \cite{wang2021}, reinforcement learning and artificial potential fields are combined to achieve global optimal policy for IIoT-based VCTS. Finally, in \cite{basile2022}, the authors propose an unsupervised actor-critic DDPG controller that achieves VC formation despite external disturbances acting on the train dynamics, enhancing stability and reliability in uncertain autonomous train convoys.

\end{comment}














 

 

 
